  * [Secure coding](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security "Secure coding")/
  * [CodeQL CLI](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/codeql-cli "CodeQL CLI")/
  * [Advanced functionality](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/codeql-cli/using-the-advanced-functionality-of-the-codeql-cli "Advanced functionality")/
  * [Specifying command options in a CodeQL configuration file](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/codeql-cli/using-the-advanced-functionality-of-the-codeql-cli/specifying-command-options-in-a-codeql-configuration-file "Specifying command options in a CodeQL configuration file")


# Specifying command options in a CodeQL configuration file
You can save default command options in a CodeQL configuration file.
## Who can use this feature?
CodeQL is available for the following repository types:
  * Public repositories on GitHub.com, see [GitHub CodeQL Terms and Conditions](https://github.com/github/codeql-cli-binaries/blob/main/LICENSE.md)
  * Organization-owned repositories on GitHub Team with [GitHub Code Security](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/learning-about-github/about-github-advanced-security) enabled


## In this article
  * [About specifying command options in a CodeQL configuration file](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/codeql-cli/using-the-advanced-functionality-of-the-codeql-cli/specifying-command-options-in-a-codeql-configuration-file#about-specifying-command-options-in-a-codeql-configuration-file)
  * [Using a CodeQL configuration file](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/codeql-cli/using-the-advanced-functionality-of-the-codeql-cli/specifying-command-options-in-a-codeql-configuration-file#using-a-codeql-configuration-file)


## [About specifying command options in a CodeQL configuration file](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/codeql-cli/using-the-advanced-functionality-of-the-codeql-cli/specifying-command-options-in-a-codeql-configuration-file#about-specifying-command-options-in-a-codeql-configuration-file)
You can save default or frequently used options for your commands in a per-user configuration file.
You can specify CodeQL CLI command options in two ways:
  * Directly in the command line, using the appropriate flag.
  * In a configuration (or `config`) file that CodeQL scans for relevant options each time a command is executed.


For options that are likely to change each time you execute a command, specifying the value on the command line is the most convenient way of passing the information to CodeQL. Saving options in a `config` file is a good way to specify options you use frequently. It’s also a good way to add custom CodeQL packs that you use regularly to your search path.
## [Using a CodeQL configuration file](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/codeql-cli/using-the-advanced-functionality-of-the-codeql-cli/specifying-command-options-in-a-codeql-configuration-file#using-a-codeql-configuration-file)
You need to save the `config` file under your home (Linux and macOS) or user profile (Windows) directory in the `.config/codeql/` subdirectory. For example, `$HOME/.config/codeql/config`.
The syntax for specifying options is as follows:
```
<command> <subcommand> <option> <value>

```

To apply the same options to more than one command you can:
  * Omit the `<subcommand>`, which will specify the option for every `<subcommand>` to which it’s relevant.
  * Omit both `<command>` and `<subcommand>`, which will globally specify the option for every `<command>` and `<subcommand>` to which it’s relevant.


  * `config` files only accept spaces between option flags and values—CodeQL will throw an error if you use `=` to specify an option value.
  * If you specify an option in the command line, this overrides the `config` value defined for that option.
  * If you want to specify more than one option for a `<command>`, `<subcommand>` or globally, use one line per option.


### [Examples](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/codeql-cli/using-the-advanced-functionality-of-the-codeql-cli/specifying-command-options-in-a-codeql-configuration-file#examples)
  * To output all analysis results generated by `codeql database analyze` as CSV format, you would specify:
```
database analyze --format csv

```

Here, you have to specify the command and subcommand to prevent any of the low-level commands that are executed during `database analyze` being passed the same `--format` option.
  * To define the RAM (4096 MB) and number of threads (4) to use when running CodeQL commands, specify the following, on separate lines:
```
--ram 4096
--threads 4

```

  * To globally specify a directory for CodeQL to scan for CodeQL packs (which is not a sibling of the installation directory), use:
```
--search-path <path-to-directory>

```



